
*   A Region is a geographical area and each Region contains 2 or more Availability Zones. 
*   An Availability zone (AZ) is simply a datacenter.
*   AWS Edge Network Locations are end points for AWS, which are used of caching the content. Typically this consists of CloudFront,    
    Amazon's Content Delivery Network (CDN).

There were 16 regions (as of 2017 December) and 42 availability zones. 
In 2018, 6 more regions and 17 more availability zones will be added.
As of 08/07/2018, there are 55 Availibility zones and 18 geographic regions and 1 local region are present around the world. 
AWS have plan for 12 more Availability Zones and four more Regions in Bahrain, Hong Kong SAR, Sweden, and a second AWS GovCloud Region 
in the US.
https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/

To deliver content to end users with lower latency, Amazon CloudFront uses a global network of 132 Points of Presence 
(121 Edge Locations and 11 Regional Edge Caches) in 59 cities across 26 countries.
https://aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/details/

AWS Global Infrastructure:
==========================

1. Compute: Services under compute as of 08/07/2018.
    a. EC2 (stands for Elastic Compute Cloud: Virtual Servers in side the AWS cloud platform)
    b. Lightsail (Launch and Manage the private virtual servers)
    c. Elastic Container Services (Run and Manage Docker Containers)
    d. EKS (Manage Kubernetes on AWS)
    e. Lambda (Run code without thinking about Servers)
    f. Batch (Run batch jobs at any scale)
    g. Elastic Beanstalk (Run and Manage Web Apps: This allows developer to focus on code, instead of AWS infrastructure)
    
2. Storage:
    a. S3 (stands for Simple Storage Service: Scalable Storage in the cloud)
    b. EFS (Elastic File System: Managed File Storage for EC2)
    c. Galcier (Archive storage in the cloud)
    d. Storage Gateway (Hybrid Storage Integration)
    
3. Database:
    a. RDS (Relational Database Service: Managed Relational Database Service)
    b. Dynamo DB (Managed NoSQL database)
    c. Elastic Cache (In-Memory cache)
    d. Neptune (Fast reliable graph database built for the cloud)
    e. Amazon Redshift (Fast, Simple, Cost-effective Data Warehousing)
 
 4. Migration:
    a. AWS Migration Hub (Simplify and accelerate migration of your data centers to AWS)
    b. Application Discovery Service (Discover on-premises application inventory and dependencies)
    c. Database Migration Service (Managed Database Migration Service)
    d. Server Migration Service (Migrate on-premises servers to AWS)
    e. Snowball (Large scale Data transport)
 
 5. Networking & Content Delivery:
    a. VPC (Virtual Private Cloud: Isolated Cloud Resources)
    b. CloudFront (Global Content Delivery Network)
    c. Route 53 (Scalable DNS and Domain Name Registration)
    d. API Gateway (Build, Deploy and Manage APIs)
    e. Direct Connect (Dedicated Network connections to AWS)
    
 5. Developer Tools:
    a. CodeStar (Quickly develop, build and deploy applications; way of collaborating with other developers)
    b. CodeCommit (Store Code in Git private repositories)
    c. CodeBuild (Build and Test Code)
    d. CodeDeploy (Automate Code Deployments)
    e. CodePipeline (Release Software using continuous Delivery)
    f. Cloud9 (A Cloud IDE for Writing, Running and Debugging Code inside the cloud, instead of writing on local machine.)
    g. X-Ray (Analyze and Debug your applications)

6. Management Tools:
    a. CloudWatch (Monitor Resources and Applications)
    b. AWS Auto Scaling (AWS Auto Scaling enables to quickely scale your entire applications on AWS)
    c. CloudFormation (Create and Manage Resources with Templates)
    d. CloudTrail (Track User Activity and API Usage)
    e. Config (Track Resource Inventory and changes)
    f. OpsWorks (Configuration Management with Chef and Puppet)
    g. Service Catalog (Create and Use Standardized products)
    h. Systems Manager (AWS Systems Manages is a central place to view and manage AWS resources)
    i. Trusted Advisor (Optimize Performance and Security)
    j. Managed Services (IT Operations Management for AWS)
    
 7. Media Services:
    a. Elastic Transcoder (Easy-to-Use scalable Media Transcoding)
    b. Kinesis Video Streams (Capture, Proces and Store Video streams for Analytics and Machine learning)
    c. MediaConvert (Convert file-based content for broadcast and multi-screen delivery)
    d. MediaLive (Convert Media inputs into live outputs for broadcast and streaming delivery)
    e. MediaPackage (Deliver media into many devices using just-in-time format conversion )
    f. MediaStore (Store and Deliver media assets for live or on-demand media workflows)
    g. MediaTailor (Personalize and monetize the multiscreen content with server-side ad insertion)

 8. Machine Learning:
    a. Amazon SageMaker (Build, Train and Deploy Machine Learning Models, Deep Learning)
    b. Amazon Comprehend (Analyze Unstructured Text)
    c. AWS DeepLens (Deep Learning Enabled Video Camera)
    d. Amazon Lex (Build Voice and Text Chatbots)
    e. Machine Learning (Build Smart Applications Quickly and Easily)
    f. Amazon Polly (Turn Text into Lifelike Speech)
    g. Rekognition (Search and Analyze Images)
    h. Amazon Transcribe (Powerful Speech Recognition)
    i. Amazon Translate (Translate Text in Realtime)
 
 9. Analytics:
    a. Athena (Query data in S3 using SQL)
    b. EMR (Elastic MapReduce: Manage Hadoop Framework)
    c. CloudSearch (Managed Search Service)
    d. Elasticsearch Service (Rund and scale Elasticsearch Clusters)
    e. Kinesis (Work with Real-time streaming data)
    f. QuickSight (Fast, easy to use business analytics)
    g. Data Pipeline (Orchestration for Data Driven work-flows)
    h. AWS Glue (AWS Glue is fully managed ETL service)
 
10. Security, Identity & Compliance:
    a. IAM (Identity Access Management: Manage User Access and Encryption Keys)
    b. Cognito (User Identity and App Synchronization), eg: using gmail, facebook on the mobile.
    c. Secrets Manager (Easily rotate, manage and retrieve secrets throughout their lifecycle)
    d. GuardDuty (Intelligent Thread detection to protect AWS accounts and workloads)
    e. Inspector (Analyze applications security)
    f. Amazon Macie (Amazon Macie classifies and secure business critical content)
    g. AWS Single Sign-On (Manage Single Sing-on (SSO) access to AWS accounts and Business Applications )
    i. Certificate Manager (Provision, Manage, and Deploy SSL/TLS Certificates)
    j. CloudHSM (Managed Hardware Security Models in the cloud)
    k. kDirectory Service (Host and Manage Active Directory)
    l. WAF & Shield (Web Applications Firewall: Protects agains DDoS attacks and Malicious web Traffic)
    m. Artifact (AWS Compliance Reports and Agreements)

11.Mobile Services
    a. Mobile Hub (Build, Test and Monitor Mobile Apps)
    b. AWS AppSync (Real-time Data sync using GraphQL for Mobile and Web Apps, Online or Offline)
    c. Device Farm (Test Android, iOS, and Web Apps on Real Time in the cloud )
    d. Mobile Analytics (Collect, View and Export App Analytics)
 
12. AR & VR
    a. Amazon Sumerian (Build AR, VR and 3D applications)
 
13. Application Integration
    a. Step Functions (Coordinate distributed applications)
    b. Amazon MQ (Managed message broker service for Apache ActiveMQ)
    c. Simple Notification Service (SNS Pub/Sub, Mobile Push and SMS)
    d. Simple Queue Service (Managed Message Queues)
    e. SWF (Workflow service for Coordinating Application Components)
 
14. Customer Engagement
    a. Amazon Connect (Amazon Connect is a contact center that enables engagement at any scale)
    b. Pinpoint (Engage Users via Email, SMS; Push & Analytics)
    c. Simple Email Service (Email Sending and Receiving Service)
 
15. Business Productivity
    a. Alexa for Business (Alexa for Business provides tools to Manage Alexa in your organization)
    b. Amazon Chime (Amazon Chime is a communication service that transforms online meetings.)
    c. WorkDocs (Secure Enterprise storage and Sharing Service)
    d. WorkMail (Secure Email and Calendering service)
 
16. Desktop & App Streaming
    a. WorkSpaces (Desktops in the cloud)
    b. AppStream 2.0 (Stream Desktop applications securely to any web browser)
 
17. Internet of Things
    a. IoT Core (Connect Devices to the Cloud)
    b. IoT 1-Click (Trigger AWS Lambda functions from simple devices)
    c. IoT Device Management (Securely Manage Fleets as Small as one Device or as Broad as million devices)
    d. IoT Analytics (collect, preprocess, store analyze and visualize data of IoT devices)
    e. Greengrass (Deploy and Run code on your devices)
    f. Amazon FreeRTOS (Amazon FreeRTOS is an IoT operating system for Microcontrollers)
    g. IoT Device Defender (Connect Devices to the cloud)
 
18. Game Development
    a. Amazon GameLift (Deploy and Scale Session-based multi-player games)



* Ready Player 1 book for VR.
